# Do I have to spend hours in the gym daily for health benefits?

Two of the top benefits of exercise include lowering your risk for certain diseases and increasing your longevity—and it doesn’t take much exercise to achieve this. The more fitness you have in your reserve, the more you can counter stress and the more flexibility you can have with your eating plan. The benefits of walking just two to two and a half hours a week can lower your mortality rate by 20 percent. Exercising just 11 minutes a day can lower your mortality rate by 10 percent.Doing three to four short bouts of intense exercise can lower your mortality rate by 40 percent. Eleven bouts of short, intense exercise may lower the risk of cardiovascular disease by 65 percent and cancer by 49 percent. A 10 to 59-minute workout once a week, every week, can decrease your mortality rate by 18 percent. Exercise even supports the mitochondria and helps balance healthy blood sugar levels. Going for a walk after eating may help burn any carbohydrates you eat. But it’s also important to find a form of exercise you enjoy so you won’t procrastinate doing it. Setting a timer and breaking up your day with scheduled small bursts of exercise may be extremely beneficial for your health. A heart rate variability device is a useful tool to help you figure out your fitness level, when you should and shouldn’t exercise, and how long you should exercise. Using a sauna, intermittent fasting, and getting out in nature may also help increase your longevity.