# How to speed up digestion?

Breaking down the digestive tract: Stomach — Acid is the key thing in your stomach. It helps you break down protein, absorb certain minerals, and kill pathogens. Many people do not have enough strong acid in their stomach. To support healthy stomach acid levels, consider: • Hydrochloric acid (betaine hydrochloride) • Salt • Potassium • Apple cider vinegar • Kombucha tea Bile — Bile is made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. Bile helps you break down fats. Supporting bile production can also help with bloating and belching. To support bile production, consider: • Bile salts • Beet tops • Ginger • Artichokes • Lemon • Milk thistle • Choline Enzymes — A lot of enzymes are produced by your pancreas. Your small intestine, stomach, and microbes in your intestines can also make certain enzymes. Enzymes help you break down carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Heat destroys enzymes. To support enzymes, consider: • Taking a blend of enzymes • Consuming more raw foodsFlora — This is your friendly bacteria. Most of the flora in your body are in your large intestine. To support your flora, consider: • Taking a probiotic • Consuming prebiotic foods (vegetable fiber)P.N.S — Your parasympathetic nervous system is all about rest and digestion. To support and stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system, consider: • Lowering stress • Increasing B1 • Increasing potassium • Increasing magnesium https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/speed-up-digestion