# Is the Electrolyte Sports drink different from the Electrolyte Powder?

Dr. Berg’s Electrolyte Sports Drink contains zero sugar, zero maltodextrin and zero calories. It is packed with potassium and other key electrolytes for intense workout recovery, including sodium, magnesium, calcium and chloride. Its formula is similar to Dr. Berg’s electrolyte powders with a key added ingredient: Himalayan sea salt.Because sodium and trace minerals are lost through perspiration during strenuous exercise, this salt provides 50 mg of sodium, 75 mg of chloride and up to 84 trace minerals per serving to help active people recover.Dr. Berg’s sports drink offers a range of health benefits by restoring natural electrolyte balance.BenefitsReduces the negative health effects of low potassiumAdds more health-boosting potassium to your dietAvoids the toxic effects of sugar and high fructose corn syrup found in many sports drinksContains no sugar or carbs, perfect for a ketogenic dietMaintains a high level of energy throughout your workoutHelps your body to recover faster from workouts and strenuous exerciseEliminates muscle cramps and fatigue post workoutSupports optimal muscle and nerve function during exerciseElectrolytes support your body with energy, and 1000 mg of potassium energizes your brain, cells and musclesHelps your body to work normallySupports quicker reflexesRejuvenates cells by restoring key electrolytes and trace mineralsRestores sodium to remedy deficienciesCaffeine-freeHow to consume itTake 1 scoop and dissolve it in water, almond milk, coconut milk or other liquid. Many people take the sports drink 30 minutes before a workout, during intense workouts or after workouts.Where to get itYou can order it online at Dr. Berg Shop (order here). You can also order it on Amazon (order here).