# Is the V Shred program effective for weight loss?

You’ve probably seen advertisements offering a program that can help you burn fat and get shredded without doing keto, paleo, or even exercise. This diet only requires you to cut out added sugar and processed foods.But is this program too good to be true? The short answer: for most people, yes.Fat burning and weight loss are about what you eat and when you eat. It’s really tied to insulin. If you lower your insulin, your body can stop storing fat and will start burning fat. The lower your carbohydrates, the more fat you’re going to burn. It’s harder for some people to lose weight than others because they have insulin resistance. Some people can lose weight by only reducing their carbs because they don’t have insulin resistance. But this is rare. About 70% of the population has insulin resistance. The two main things that increase insulin are carbs and frequent eating. The more insulin resistance you have, the more you have to reduce your carbs and do intermittent fasting. The problem with the V Shred program is that it focuses on a very small percentage of the population that can lose weight by reducing junk foods and processed sugar. The majority of people will need to at least do fasting to experience results. It’s also important to remember that it’s not just about weight loss. It’s about getting healthy and looking good as you lose weight. I believe the best way to get healthy and lose weight is to get on the Healthy Keto® diet (lower your carbs and increase the quality of your food), do intermittent fasting, and do the right exercise.