# What can quickly relieve sciatica pain?

Sciatica is a problem with the sciatic nerve, which is the longest and largest nerve in the body. 90% of sciatica cases involve the discs in your spine.Copper is used topically in many types of natural therapies for inflammation and pain. It’s also used for myeloneuropathy, which can lead to various nerve problems. In many cases, myeloneuropathy is caused by a copper deficiency. Copper is very low-risk, non-toxic, and relatively inexpensive—it’s something many people can try.One of the enzymes that greatly impacts sciatica is the same enzyme that uses copper as an essential cofactor for building collagen. 75% of the outer part of the discs in your spine are made out of collagen. Copper is also used in enzymes involving your nerves and is essential for many other bodily functions.Top causes of copper deficiency:• A lack of copper in the diet• Intense physical exercise (especially at higher altitudes)• Taking a lot of zinc, iron, potassium, or niacin without also taking copper• Consuming enriched flour products• Consuming fluoride from tap water• Taking high amounts of ascorbic acid• Excessive sweating• Sun tanning too often• Stress, high levels of DHEA, or high levels of cortisol• Consuming distilled water• Gastric bypass surgery• Consuming too much sugar, coffee, alcohol, or aspartameA genetic problem with copper absorption can also lead to a deficiency in copper. A copper brace that wraps around the buttocks where the sciatic nerve is or other topical copper remedies may be beneficial for sciatic nerve pain. But ensuring you’re getting enough copper from your diet is also essential.Foods high in copper include:1. Liver2. Oysters3. Shellfish4. Dark chocolate (sugar-free)5. Cashews6. Meathttps://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/fix-sciatica-pain-fast-with-3-simple-stretches-drberg