# What are the key benefits of branched-chain amino acids?

Branched Chain Amino Acids are one group of amino acids, the building blocks of protein. They are used to build muscle—but it is a myth. There are no human studies to show that taking BCAAs will increase muscle synthesis; they also won’t prevent muscle loss.BCAAs may give you a little bit of energy while you are working out. But the body needs all 9 essential amino acids for recovery, repair, and regrowth of proteins. In other words, BCAAs are not providing you with the complete version of protein that you need.BenefitsBCAAs may provide you with a bit of energy during a workout.How to consume themConsuming BCAAs before or after exercise when you are on a ketogenic diet (keto) and when you are doing intermittent fasting will spike insulin, but it would be a very small spike.The real question is WHY are you taking them in the first place? If you are taking them for recovery, then realize that those amino acids take several hours before they are turned into protein and you would be much better off taking B vitamins (nutritional yeast) and minerals (electrolytes), since they are the cofactors or helpers in the repair of muscles and the creation of muscle.If you are taking BCAAs to protect the muscles, realize that intermittent fasting, in general, will already give you a protein-sparing effect and it will protect you from the loss of proteinin the body. Growth hormone will be spiked too, which helps with keeping your muscle mass. Autophagy will also occur, which is the recycling of proteins from the cells, thus reducing the need for taking extra protein.Where to get itYou can get it at a supplement store or order it online.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/branched-chain-amino-acids-bcaa-do-not-make-muscle-drberg