# What factors contribute to delayed recovery after exercise?

Recovery is the ability of your body to repair, heal broken tissues and recharge for the next set of actions (like exercises). Certain nutrients are very important for healthy and fast body recovery.Cause #1: StressThe number 1 barrier to recovery and healing of your body is stress. Specifically if you are undergoing constant stress or were stressed for a long time--those two conditions will increase your cortisol (stress hormone) and keep it high. When your body is producing high amounts of cortisol, the body will not heal and recover properly.Cause #2: Too-intense exerciseIf you are overtrained at the gym or as part of some sports activity and your blood pressure is way too high for many hours, or you can’t fall asleep that night because of increased heart rate, these are the indicators of overtraining (which will cause inability to recover fast).Cause #3: Low rest between setsIf you are exercising intensively, you are stimulating your heart rate. If you don’t allow your pulse rate to go down to normal range after a set and before you start a new one, this can cause an additional load on your parasympathetic nervous system (it is responsible for rest and lowering your pulse rate). Keeping your intensity too high without letting your body recover after intense sets can cause difficulties with resting and recovering after your workout.How to make your body stronger and more stress-tolerantIf your body cells are stress-free all the time this can cause them to weaken. The reason behind this is that stress in short and gradual ways is beneficial for your body, as your cells have an opportunity to recharge and get stronger. Here are some short-term stressors for your body that can build strong stress resistance over time.You can do the following:Intermittent fasting planExercise (pay attention to recovery)CryotherapySaunaHyperbaric oxygen therapyLight therapy, laser therapyGo out in the sunTake phytonutrients (note: they are considered as toxins in plants, but in small amounts they can help build up your own body’s defenses against toxins)https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/how-much-rest-recovery-do-we-need-after-workout-drberg-on-exercise