# What are the various causes and triggers of eczema?

Eczema is a condition where you have red, scaly, flaky or rashy skin. This condition is also known as atopic dermatitis.Symptoms:Itchy skinRashy skinFlaky skinCause #1: Salicylate sensitivitySalicylate is a natural acid that is present in plants, spices and nuts. It’s a protective acid that is produced by the plants. You can have intolerance to it and this can cause eczema.Cause #2: Omega-3 fatty acid deficiencyOmega-3 fatty acid is a vital nutrient that has anti-inflammatory properties. Low levelsof omega-3 can cause eczema. It’s important to increase your omega-3 and consume lower quantities of foods with omega-6 fatty acid. (Omega-6 is the opposite of omega-3 in that it has inflammatory properties.)Cause #3: Vitamin A deficiencyOne common symptom of vitamin A deficiency is xerosis: it’s dried-out skin with fine wrinkles or a scaly appearance. Vitamin A has a lot to do with the integrity of your skin--so it’s vital that you get plenty of it for your skin health.Cause #4: Vitamin D deficiencyVitamin D is also vital for your skin health--especially for preventing or counteracting psoriasis. Psoriasis is an autoimmune condition (when your immune system attacks your body’s own healthy cells) that is related to your skin. Vitamin D acts as a powerful anti-inflammatory--it’s like cortisol, but without the side effects. Vitamin D can help with eczema.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/is-your-eczema-coming-from-a-salicylate-sensitivity-drberg-on-atopic-dermatitishttps://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/why-use-cod-liver-oil-for-eczema-remedies-for-eczema-drberg