# What methods can be used to relieve muscle cramps?

Many times when a person has muscle cramps, they usually increase their electrolytes. In many cases, that will work. But, if it doesn’t work, you may want to try apple cider vinegar. In the tendon, you have a little receptor called the Golgi tendon organ. This receptor picks up information from the load of the muscle. There’s information being sent from the muscle based on tension that’s being picked up by this tendon. The information is then carried through the nervous system, to the spinal collum, up to the brain, then to associated muscles, and back to the receptor. There is a lot of control over the muscle dynamic from the nervous system and the receptors. There are certain chemical compounds that you need that communicate between the muscles and the nerve. One of the big ones is acetylcholine. Apple cider vinegar can actually contribute to the formation of acetylcholine. We need electrolytes, which are electrically charged minerals for the electrical part of this problem. We need acetylcholine, which is a neurotransmitter, to allow that to work. Also, if your pH is too alkaline, you may get muscle cramping. One remedy for cramping would be to acidify the body. Pickle juice and kombucha tea may help acidify the body. But, apple cider vinegar may work even better because it may help increase acetylcholine. You can dilute apple cider by mixing one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in an 8-12 oz. glass of water. Consider drinking this mixture a couple of times a day. https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/use-apple-cider-vinegar-for-muscle-spasmcramps-drberg