# What are the key benefits of L-Theanine Adrenal Support?

Stress exhausts your body and your mind. Dr. Berg’s L-Theanine Adrenal Suppotis designed to relieve your body by supporting normal hormones. It can also speed up relief by promoting “happy” mood signals. With this supplement you use natural power to support an overworked mind and a stressed body.If you’re one of the many people who realize you are always stressed and fatigued, don’t think that there’s no way to feel energized and healthy again. Your “old happy self” is realistically reachable. The easiest way to start is by giving your body the nutrients that support and produce normal levels of stress hormones and happiness signals.Dr. Berg’s L-Theanine Adrenal Support helps you recover from chronic stress for less money than you spend on dinner and a drink. Focus, energy, vitality and a pleasant mood are now achievable.This supplement is right for you ifYou’ve been chronically stressed for years and your body has been suffering because of itYou feel fatigued and burned out, and you would love to feel full of vitality and energy once againYou are dealing with menopause and want to feel hormonally balanced and calmYou want to boost your overall health and immunity so you feel the best that you can possibly feelYou want to handle stress with ease and balance, no matter what life throws at youBenefitsHelps you recover after constant exhaustion — years of stress countered by inside-out rejuvenationSupports your mind with mood signalsPromotes normal adrenal functionBeats fatigue and burnoutBoosts your energy naturallyFights menopause stressHow to consume itTake 1 capsule with meals three times per day as a dietary supplement.