# What are the most effective and immediate ways to relieve a hangover?

Alcohol is mainly absorbed in your stomach, then goes to your liver where an enzyme breaks it down into two different compounds. One is called acetaldehyde, and the other is acetate, which is similar to vinegar.Acetaldehyde is very toxic. It’s actually 30 times more toxic than the alcohol itself. It’s what creates damage to your liver along with the rest of your body. Acetaldehyde is what gives you the symptoms of a hangover. It’s not the alcohol that does.And the more your liver is deficient in a very powerful antioxidant called glutathione, the more build-up of acetaldehyde builds up because you don’t have enough glutathione to neutralize it. Thus, the more damage it causes. Alcohol also decreases a very specific amino acid called glutamine. This forces your body to make more, in a process called glutamine rebound. Glutamine is a stimulant, and it prevents you from getting into deep delta wave sleep. When you wake up, you won’t feel rejuvenated. On the contrary, you’ll have a headache and feel miserable. You’ll have anxiety and even want to vomit because your body is trying to rid itself of the acetaldehyde.But here’s what you can naturally do to minimize the damage and get rid of your hangover. Tae vitamin B1 (thiamine). It helps to neutralize acetaldehyde, and it balances out glutamine. So take B1 before you go to bed, then again when you wake up. B1 specifically protects your cells’ mitochondria from oxidation. Of course, there’s also a dehydration effect. Drink plenty of water, and take vitamin C in a whole food form, or eat foods high in vitamin C. I also recommend consuming lots of leafy greens and cruciferous vegetables, because the acetaldehyde causes so much free radical damage that you want lots of antioxidants.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/how-to-get-rid-of-hangover-instantly-drberg