# What are the key benefits of Gallbladder Formula Extra Strength?

Dr. Berg’s Gallbladder Formula Extra Strength is designed to support healthy digestion and promote normal bile. Digestive discomfort such as acid reflux and bloating can often be blamed on a weak gallbladder that produces abnormal bile levels. You may be surprised to know that this formula promotes healthy bile even if you’ve had your gallbladder removed.Gallbladder Formula contains natural ingredients to help support a healthy gallbladder and provides bile salts for bloating and digestive stress.Bile helps you digest. Your body uses bile to break down complicated fats and absorb fat- soluble vitamins. Help your body support healthy bile by supplementing bile and digestive enzymes. It doesn’t matter if your gallbladder has been removed; this supplement will support your digestion.Maintain your normal digestive environment. Support the many parts of your digestive system including your liver, stomach enzymes, stomach acid and pancreas. All of these work together to help break down even the toughest foods.This supplement is right for you ifYou want to say goodbye to bloating, constipation, and other digestive discomforts, getting relief once and for allYou have a weak gallbladder or don’t have a gallbladder and want to support normal bile levelsYou’d love to feel satisfied, cleaner and lighter after you eat, erasing those uncomfortable feelings after mealsYou want to support normal food digestion and absorb all of the nutrients your body needs to stay healthyBenefitsRoundhouse approach to a healthy digestionsupports your pancreassupports your stomachsupports your liversupports all the body parts that aid healthy digestionCan help reduce bloating, constipation and digestive discomfortEnzymes support bile to promote healthy digestionHelps relieve digestive discomfortSupports regular bowel movementsLets you feel lighter after mealsSupports nutrient absorptionSupports absorption of fat-soluble vitaminsvitamin Avitamin Dvitamin Evitamin K1vitamin K2Contains purified bile saltsSupports you even if you don’t have a gallbladderSupports your digestion for 40 cents per meal (36 cents if you subscribe)Backed by over 1,300 happy customer reviews30-Day Money Back Guarantee lets you watch your digestion improve 100% risk-freeHow to consume itAs a dietary supplement, take 2 capsules per day with a meal.Where to get itYou can order it online at Dr. Berg Shop (order here). You can also order it on Amazon (order here).There is also a vegan formula that you can take. You can order it online at Dr. Berg Ship (order here). You can also order it on Amazon (order here).