# What is the most effective treatment for chronic sinus issues?

Sinusitis is an inflammatory condition that can act like year-round allergies. It can cause:Stuffy sinusesAllergy-like symptomsDifficulty breathingPoor sleepAnd numerous other sinus problems.It’s important to understand that your sinuses are lined with a delicate membrane called the mucus membrane. You also have bacteria in your sinuses that help protect the mucus membrane from pathogens.When there’s an imbalance of bacteria, you can develop an overgrowth of microbes, particularly fungus. The remedy we’re talking about today is going to help support the microbes that protect the mucus membrane from fungal infections.There was a small study in 2012, which found that there’s a shift in a particular microbe with those who have sinusitis called Lactobacillus Sakei. This microbe happens to be found in kimchi, which is a Korean dish consisting of fermented vegetables, including cabbage, radish, onion, garlic, ground chili, and ginger.Together, these ingredients have a powerful effect on pathogens. They are antifungal, antiviral, and anti-candida. The brands of kimchi that are known to have significant amounts of Lactobacillus Sakei include:SunJan’sSinto GourmetMama-O’s PremiumWhite NapaFarmhouse CultureOzukeMr. KimchiYou can actually take some of the juice from kimchi, dilute it by 50% with water, dip a q-tip in it, and rub it on the inside of your nostrils. This will help provide your mucus membranes with Lactobacillus Sakei. Just keep in mind that the chili powder, ginger, and garlic could cause a burning sensation. You can apply this a few times a day for a week or two. Additionally, you’ll want to consume kimchi regularly to start building up your friendly microbes.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/the-best-food-for-chronic-sinus-issues