# What are some effective strategies for reducing excessive mucus buildup in the sinuses and clearing nasal passages?

Salt thins mucus with this same mechanism. Salt removes water from the mucus, making it thinner so that it can be more easily expelled from the body.To eliminate mucus using salt, dissolve a teaspoon of sea salt (not table salt) in a glass of water. Drink or gargle the salt water. This exposes the mouth and throat to salt, which helps to get rid of mucus, improves immunity, and strengthens the autonomic nervous system. You can also use diluted apple cider vinegar. This changes the pH and helps kill microbes.A Neti pot uses nasal irrigation to gently send a stream of diluted salt water through your sinuses, helping to thin the mucus. If you have a constant post-nasal drip, you may have a fungal infection or mold issue going on in your sinuses, and cutting sugar from your diet may help.You can also use a humidifier with a saltwater solution while you sleep. A humidifier turns liquid into vapor, allowing you to inhale the salt water. Halotherapy, or salt therapy, can also be beneficial. If none of these remedies seem to be working, an ear infection could be the source of your mucus. In this case, try putting four to five drops of saltwater directly into each ear. You can try the same thing with diluted apple cider vinegar or use one drop of garlic oil in each ear.Vitamin D supports your immune system and helps prevent mucus. Vitamin D deficiencies are associated with enlarged tonsils, sinus allergies, sinus mucus, and ear infections. Try taking 20,000 to 50,000 IU of vitamin D once per week to address mucus. https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/youtube-videos-drink-1-cup-to-clear-phlegm