# What beverages are allowed during fasting?

Water won’t kick you out of ketosis, but water quality varies greatly. Tap water is generally pretty toxic, and plastic water bottles contain microplastics. Glass water bottles are a better option, but they can be costly. Canned water often contains BPA.Unless you have access to a well or spring water, a water filter is best. Crystal Quest water filters are cost-efficient and work well.Some people find that they feel more hydrated after drinking carbonated water. Carbonated water contains carbon dioxide, which helps drive oxygen into your tissues. Carbonated water is also slightly more acidic, which may be helpful for digestion.You can add apple cider vinegar to your water to increase energy, help with insulin resistance, improve mitochondrial function, and help improve a fatty liver.While fasting, you can also add electrolyte powder or sea salt to your water. If you’re doing one meal a day, it's especially important you’re getting enough salt.Stevia is fine on keto, but oftentimes, you’ll see maltodextrin added to stevia-sweetened beverages. Keto-friendly sweeteners that will not kick you out of ketosis include erythritol, monk fruit, and stevia.You can drink coffee without sugar while fasting—just be careful not to overdo it with caffeine. Try using heavy cream for your coffee rather than half-and-half. Bulletproof coffee involves adding coconut oil, MCT oil, or butter to your coffee. For some people, this can hinder weight loss.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/youtube-videos-what-to-drink-when-fasting-dr