# When is the best time to focus on losing weight?

The Best Times to Eat to Lose WeightThe information today on the best time to eat to lose weight is based on the technique called intermittent fasting. This is when you go for a long period of time without eating. Intermittent fasting fixes the condition called insulin resistance.What is Insulin Resistance?Insulin resistance occurs when your body’s insulin levels are too high, but the insulin isn’t working well. This means that the insulin won’t get into the cells. Because of the high levels of insulin remaining outside the cells, you will not lose weight. If you have a belly, you have too much insulin. To correct it, we do intermittent fasting.Will You Lose Muscle Mass with Intermittent Fasting?When you do intermittent fasting, you are at the best time to eat two meals, three meals or one meal. Do not worry about losing your muscle when you are doing intermittent fasting. You will not lose your muscle.This method protects the proteins in the muscle. In fact, it’s a good way to increase your body’s production of growth hormone and testosterone, both of which are fat-burning hormones that also build up muscle.What’s the Goal in Intermittent Fasting?Most people will not be able to eat two meals a day at once and will have to start out with three meals a day. The goal is to graduate to two meals a day if you really want to lose some serious weight. If you have insulin resistance, it’s going to be hard to go without eating because your blood sugar levels are all messed up.Is It Difficult to Get Adjusted to This Method?It might take a couple of weeks or even a month to get into this routine. Start the process with three meals a day. Once you get used to the idea of no snacking, remove one meal and just have two meals a day.Ideally, the best time to start eating is at 11:30 am and then again at 5 pm. If you can’t do this, eat at 4:30 pm. The goal is to be very satisfied when you eat at 11:30 am. Don’t just eat a small amount of food. Eat a good, solid meal of protein, greens, and some healthy fat.Don’t go low-fat because it will mess up everything. You want to adjust the fats so you feel satisfied and you can go from breakfast to the second meal without feeling hungry. If you can’t, it means you have to bump up your fat intake. You can be a little hungry at 5 pm, but if you are ravenous with blood sugar issues, you will have to go back to 3 meals a day. This just means you haven’t gradua ted yet. If you’re doing it right, you will feel that your stomach is going to be a lot less bloated. You’ll feel that your stomach is shrinking and coming down in size. Congratulations! You’re burning off that belly fat. This is the best way to lose your belly because you are restoring your insulin levels.At night, do the same thing you did in the late morning – proteins, greens, and fat at 5 pm until you are very satisfied and can go all the way to the morning.Will I Be Starving Myself?No, you will not because the average body has a lot of reserves — fat to live off of. You’re basically living off fat between the first meal and the second meal.The goal is to be able to switch what you’re burning. When you’re eating, you are burning off the calories from eating. When you’re not eating, you are switching over to burning off your own body fat. That whole switch is controlled by insulin. The more you get used to this method, the more you’ll be able to do it easily. It takes a while to graduate into it, so be patient.The Biggest Hurdle to SuccessI think the biggest problem people have is that they have a habit of snacking on foods when they get home from work. You have to break the habit of eating frequently. There are huge bodybuilders I know that will eat only once or twice a day. And there are really skinny people who eat five meals a day – they will end up having problems down the road. The key is to stop eating frequently.Intermittent fasting is also going to save you a lot of money because you’re not going to have to buy as much food. You’re also going to feel a lot healthier.Your brain and cognitive function will be better and all the other health problems that are connected to this.How to Determine the Best Time to EatIf you’re new to intermittent fasting, start off with three meals a day with no snacking in between. Then graduate into two meals a day until you reach your goal. Then you can decide if you want to change back to three meals a day or stay at two. It really depends on a couple of factors:1. Your age: If you are younger, you’ll probably need three meals a day.2. Your exercise level: If you’re exercising like crazy, you’ll need three meals a day. However, a lot of people who are exercising still only need two meals a day, and they still feel incredible.Once you get into fat-burning mode, you’re going to have a hard time going back to running your body on sugar because you’re basically tapping into your own fuel sources when you use intermittent fasting.Your Body Loves Burning Fat!And by the way, burning fat or ketosis was the original way our bodies worked hundreds or thousands of years ago. It wasn’t until the last 100 years that we ran our body on sugar.It’s a very natural thing for our body to run on fat. Our body likes to burn fat, but we have to practice intermittent fasting to be able to do this.So, from now on, meal times are at 11:30 am and 5 pm.Go ahead and try this! Let me know about the results in the comments below.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/the-best-time-to-eat-to-lose-the-most-weight-possible-drberg