# Why my blood test shows normal Vitamin D levels but I still have Vitamin D deficiency?

Vitamin D resistance interferes with vitamin D levels and vitamin D absorption. Genetic problems, Lyme disease, and certain infections downgrade the vitamin D receptor. A deficiency in zinc, magnesium, or vitamin K2 will inhibit vitamin D function in the body. High cortisol, darker skin, diabetes, obesity, and other health conditions will also affect vitamin D absorption. The RDA for vitamin D is only 600 IU when you actually need 8,895 IU every day! Research has shown that low vitamin D levels increase your risk for viral infections. People with tumors and cancer have been found to have low vitamin D.New research has shown the benefits of vitamin D for autoimmune conditions. Dr. Coimbra from Brazil has used high vitamin D levels to treat patients with autoimmune conditions, and the results have been amazing. Another doctor using high doses of vitamin D3 has over 900 video testimonials of improvement in people with autoimmune diseases. One eye doctor in Germany wrote a book about using high doses of vitamin D3 for glaucoma and other eye-related problems. “The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 4th Edition” addressed vitamin D resistance and vitamin D dosage of 50,000 IU to up to 500,000 IU! Vitamin D allows you to absorb more calcium, so when you take high doses of vitamin D, make sure you’re not consuming calcium supplements. Take vitamin D with magnesium because it helps regulate calcium.