# Why does taking low calories not result in weight loss?

A calorie is a unit of energy in food. Each type of food (carbohydrates, proteins, and fats) has its own unit of energy. Protein contains 4 calories per gram Carbohydrates contain 4 calories per gram Fat contains 9 calories per gram You can see that fat contains more than double the calories per weight. The assumption is that consuming fat, which contains more calories, will cause more weight gain. But what is rarely factored into this equation is the hormone piece of the puzzle. Insulin is the most powerful "fat-making hormone." It will convert food into fat easily. It is triggered by: • Sugar Carbohydrates (including grain carbs, fruit juice, and starchy carbs (potato, rice, and corn). • Excess protein. Interestingly, fats are neutral and are not triggered by any of the fat-storing hormones. Growth Hormone (GH) is the most powerful "fat-burning hormone." It will trigger the fat-burning process. It is triggered by protein (small amounts). 1. Protein Protein is needed to repair and replace many body structures (muscles, tendons, collagen, hair, nails, hormones, etc.). We continuously need protein to restore the body tissue. So our body needs a certain amount of protein, and this is why only excess protein is converted to fat. 3-4 ounces of protein is best. 2. Fat Fat is needed to repair and replace many body structures (the outer walls of all cells, mini-structures inside our cells, our entire nervous system, our entire skin, our brain, and our hormones). The ketogenic diet focuses primarily on fats to use as fuel. 3. Carbs Sugar carbs, including grains, starches, and sweet fruits, are what really lead to weight gain. Vegetable carbs—most vegetables do not turn into sugars easily, which don't contribute to weight gain.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/calorie-myth-why-low-calories-does-not-equal-weight-loss-drberg