# How canI feed my child if he is a very picky eater?

If your child only consumes savory snacks, sugary cereals, french fries, mac and cheese, cheese sticks, frozen waffles, and packaged foods, and avoids vegetables, fish, and meats, then this video is for you!Picky eating is most often due to nutritional deficiencies. The best situation is to start your kids out on healthy, nutritious foods from birth to ensure no nutritional deficiencies. However, at a certain age, it is often very difficult to get your child to consume the right foods. A zinc deficiency is common among children. Zinc affects your child’s ability to smell and taste. Consuming refined carbs and sugars will create a zinc deficiency. MSG and modified food starch affect your child’s appetite. If they are consuming any of the foods I mentioned earlier, then they are likely consuming a lot of MSG and modified food starch. In turn, this increases appetite and insulin. Always avoid MSG.If your child is lacking DHA or vitamin B1, they are likely to have problems with their mood and behavior—especially anger. If a child has enough B1, they are going to be calm—they won’t feel restless, and they’ll have more self-control. Refined carbs and sugars can create vitamin B1 and DHA deficiency. You should find healthy keto substitutes for high-carb and high-sugar foods. Make the transition from unhealthy junk foods to healthy keto foods. Instead of telling your child that they can’t have those foods, find a healthy substitute. You can also get your child to make the recipes with you. My wife has done this with my children for many years, and this works great—they enjoy cooking healthy foods. https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/is-your-kid-a-picky-eater-do-this