# How can I flatten my stomach for good?

Crunches are not the secret to six-pack abs. To get flat abs and avoid poor posture or back pain at the same time, you need to balance exercises like crunches with other types of exercise, like back exercises.Two of the best types of exercises for belly fat are long walks or hikes and high-intensity interval training (HIIT). While exercise is important, diet is more critical when it comes to losing belly fat. The best fat-burning diet is the Healthy Keto® diet. This is a combination of high-quality protein, low-starch vegetables, and other nutrient-dense, low-carb foods. Intermittent fasting is also beneficial to help you lose weight and get healthy. You may want to add more fat to your diet initially to help you fast for longer periods. But, once you become adapted and start losing fat, you may want to cut back the fat you consume.You can take certain remedies for fat-burning, but realize these won't work unless you also change your diet.A few of the best fat-burning supplements include: • Garcinia Cambogia • Raspberry ketones • Green tea extract • Caffeine • Chili pepper extractIn some cases, you might mistake bloating for belly fat. Intermittent fasting can help decrease bloating. Bloating could mean you also need more acid in your stomach. Betaine hydrochloride is the best remedy for bloating caused by a lack of stomach acid. A lack of bile can also create bloating. In this case, you could try taking bile salts. Top foods that cause bloating include: • Fruit • Yogurt • Beans • Grains • Almond flour • Sugar alcohols • Tapioca fiber • Soluble corn fiber • Plant-based green shakes or protein shakes If you have IBS or an inflammatory condition in your gut, you may want to try the carnivore diet for a little while to see if that helps reduce bloating. To flatten your stomach fast, you also need to lower your stress. Walking, physical work, and getting plenty of sleep are great ways to reduce stress. If you’re going into menopause, it’s also essential to support your adrenal glands to help avoid stubborn belly fat down the road.