# What should I do if I experience a high pulse rate while following a ketogenic diet?

When you do keto, you’re lowering your carbohydrates. But, going on keto doesn’t necessarily require you to increase other nutrients. However, there is a version of the keto diet called “healthy keto.” This means that you’re doing a low-carb diet, but you’re also making sure that you’re eating foods that include all of the nutrients your body requires. One of the interesting things that happen when you go low-carb is that you’re no longer holding on to a lot of your stored glycogen. This especially occurs when you do fasting. Glycogen is very hydrated with water. When you store fat, you’re not storing fluid. When you get on the keto diet, you’re dumping a lot of fluid. Now, you’re also going to lose potassium and magnesium—your electrolytes. Unless you’re putting these electrolytes back into the diet, you could end up with a higher pulse rate. This is because magnesium and potassium help keep the pulse rate lower and regulated. This is also why when someone starts to consume more refined carbs, their pulse rate goes up. It takes potassium to store the carbohydrates as glycogen. Both a high-carb diet and a low-carb diet without enough nutrients could cause a potassium deficiency. To help with this situation, you could start consuming more vegetables or take potassium as a supplement. Low vitamin B1 (thiamine) could also cause a high pulse rate. If you still have a high pulse rate after having more potassium, you may also want to add vitamin B1 or nutritional yeast.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/high-pulse-rate-on-keto-do-this