# What can cause a sandy or gritty feeling in the eyes?

Sensation of “sand” or irritation in the eyes can cause many difficulties in performing daily life activities. If you have this condition, let’s look at how you can resolve it.Causes:Itchy eyesWatering eyesSensitivity around the eyesDry eyesIrritationVision problemCause #1: Vitamin B2 deficiencyB vitamins are very important for many normal functions of the body. B2 deficiency can cause sensations of “sand” or irritation in the eyes. One thing to know is that usually the reason behind B2 deficiency is not lack of B2 in the diet; it’s malabsorption of B2 or consuming foods that deplete you of it.Cause #2: Vitamin A deficiencyVitamin A is very important for moisturizing your eyes. If you are deficient in it, it can cause you to have dry eyes as well as a thickened mucus around the eyes which can result in itchy eyes. Additionally, if you have a lack of bile due to liver or gallbladder problems, it can cause difficulties in absorbing vitamin A.Cause #3: High-carb dietWhen you are on a high-carb diet your blood sugars elevate too much after eating. As a result your tear glands can stop producing tears. Elevated blood sugars can also affect blood flow to the nerve that goes to the cornea.Cause #4: AllergiesAn allergy is an intolerance to certain foods or some substance in the environment (like pollen). If you have red, itchy eyes, there is a possibility that you have an allergy and your eyes are reacting to certain substances in the environment or in food.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/what-causes-crusty-eyeseye-boogers-drberg