# What are the claimed health benefits of using Himalayan sea salt versus conventional table salt?

Himalayan pink salt is a pink-hued variety of salt that is sourced near the Himalaya mountains of South Asia. Himalayan salt is believed by many to be a healthier alternative to common table salt, or sodium chloride. Though mined like rock salt, Himalayan pink salt is technically a sea salt.Himalayan salt is actually different from standard sea salt. Here’s why:Although both Himalayan salt and sea salt both have trace minerals, regular sea salt also has microplastics. One study found that 90% of sea salt products had small amounts of plastics.However, Himalayan salt has zero microplastics. Why? Himalayan salt is sourced from an ancient sea that existed before humans and pollution.BenefitsOne of the best sources of sodiumDoesn’t have microplastics (small particles of plastic) in it UnrefinedHas 84 minerals and trace mineralsUnpollutedAntimicrobialCan help support healthy blood sugarsCan help prevent cramping on ketoIts ionic minerals go into the lungs, where they are anti-inflammatory and antibacterial. This process helps support the adrenals, loosen mucus, and suppress a sensitive immune system.How to consume itYou need around 1 to 2 tsp of Himalayan salt per day. This depends on your activity level. If you sweat a lot, it can increase your need for sodium.If you’re on keto, you want a bare minimum of 1 tsp of salt a day. This is because, as you lose fat, you also lose water weight and electrolytes. Salt is a vital electrolyte.Where to get itYou can get it at a health food store or grocery store, or order it online.https://hls-player.drberg.com/asset?path=migrated-assets/himalayan-salt-vssea-salt